Well, I have such a respect for
the doctor to me the doctor is what you are sir well you notice the jacket picture doesn't have a white coat or a tie or any coat and it doesn't say md on the front of the book i know that i didn't write this book as a doctor i wrote this book as somebody's brother and somebody's father and somebody's son and somebody's friend
close to 40 years of his life in clinical situations, so I know certain things that other fathers and brothers and so forth don't know.
But I didn't write this book as a doctor to lecture people.
I wrote this book because I wanted people to know what I've learned over the years.
And that thing with the jacket picture
my wife said to me, what conceivable reason would you have to wear a coat and a tie?
You want people to see the man who wrote the book, who wrote that book, in a beat-up old sweater, in a shirt without a tie, and every morning you put a damn sweater on and go to work, and that's the guy that free-associated his way through 300 pages of a book, and that's a water beyond the jackpot.
You know, it's interesting.
I have the two books in front of me here.
And, of course, you have that wonderful Thomas Aikens painting.
And I love Aikens.
I love American art, by the way.
Oh, really?
I collect books on 19th century American art.
By the way, we don't want to get into that.
But it is interesting that that first book is the biography of medicine.
Mm-hmm.
biography, a synonym we use for biography is a life.
Exactly.
And these two books, in a way, are bookends.
They are really complementary to one, in a way.
Am I reaching here for something?
Not at all.
No, no, no, no.
You know, because you're a writer, you and I are having a conversation that's different than I've had with anybody else.
There are things that you understand that I think other people are just simply not going to understand.
No, you're dead on the money.
And I didn't perceive it until this instant when you just said it.
Interesting though, isn't it?
It really is, including the picture.
One picture is even taken in my office in medical school, the first one with a white coat.
There's even more to it.
I've got a suntan in that picture.
I have a suntan about once every three years.
I just don't really have one.
It's a great picture.
It's the ideal picture.
You'll notice on the other picture, the way I look usually, which is a little pale.
Well, I like it.
It looks like me.
I'm flattered.
No, but I mean in terms of, I'm not talking about the dust jacket pictures.
I'm talking about the content of the two books.
I mean, and again, when you say that this was a stream of consciousness kind of a work, yeah, okay, but it is part of a larger concern.
And in this first book,
You were talking about the biography, the life of medicine, what has brought us from there to here.
And now we're going to the next step, how we deal with the final, I guess.
Oh, exactly.
But what I'm saying about the dust jacket is it epitomizes the difference in approach in the two books.
And incidentally, you don't call yourself a doctor or MD in the first book either on the dust jacket.
That is true.
There's a million things we could talk about, and I know you're a busy man.
And if you'd like, I'd like to send you a copy of this piece directly, as opposed to, you know, you'll certainly get it if you give me your address.
And if you are interested in reading about some of this book stuff, I'd be pleased to send some down.
As one bibliomaniac to another, you bet I'd be interested.
I think you'd like the first chapter, which is my hodgepodge.
I mean, it's, I've tried to...
Pull everything, the literature, the, uh, there has been, there was an essay on, uh, by a, by a psychotherapist on bibliomania where I kind of poo-poo, not poo-poo it a little bit, but, uh, I mean, when you start getting into, uh, um, you know, the, exactly, you know, and, uh,
And he takes on Dr. Rosenbach, and he thought it was very interesting that the man liked to smoke big cigars, you know.
But so did Freud, for that matter, who was quite a collector, by the way, of things, you know.
Well, you know, he should remember Freud's admonition.
Sometimes, boys, a cigar is just a cigar.
He said a cigar was a good cigar.
It probably was.
Well, it killed him, too, didn't it?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, Amy Lowell, the one he never mentioned is that Amy Lowell, one of the great women collectors, she smoked.
Now, that was very interesting.
She did smoke cigars.
She smoked cigars.
I didn't know that.
Oh, yeah.
Well, Rosenbach talks about it.
I mean, she would come and visit him in Philadelphia, and they would together smoke cigars, you know.
And I would think that would be a far more tempting target, you know.
Rosenbach had a very close relationship with John Fulton, who was the founder of our own medical library at Yale.
Oh, indeed.
Well, which one is?
There's another base psalm book that you have there.
came kind of not fully as Mrs. Harkness, I guess, paid for most of it, but Rosenbach had to pay for it.
He went over her limit.
He picked up the difference, I guess.
That's an interesting story.
Well, in any case, sir.
Let me give you my address.
Okay.
The post office address is the best because it's faster.
That's fine.
I use that myself.
P.O.
Box 6356
6356 in Hamden, Connecticut.
Uh-huh.
06517.
Okay.
And my phone number is 203-288-9275.
Oh, that's great.
The fax, which is the same, 288-6040.
Okay.
That's great.
Well, I'm now, in addition to writing for the Worcester paper, I am freelancing, and I'm trying to...
with some success, but it's a lot harder than I thought to try and syndicate my column.
And just this week, I've got the Quincy Patriot Ledger has come online, so it's just effectively doubling my circulation in one swoop.
That's terrific.
I'm going to call Glenn.
I'm not going to get back until a week from...
today, but I'm going to call Glenn and tell him that you and I met, even if only through this medium.
I'd give Glenn a call today and see how we're doing.
I guess you learn it's like an old military thing, hurry up and wait.
This editor who, if he is in fact going to buy it, will be a wonderful editor for this book and it's really a wonderful publishing house.
But he did call Glenn about a month ago and said, I love this book and I intend to give you an offer on it.
But, of course, that's a month now, and where's the offer, you know?
Well, trust Glenn.
It turns out, and I have to tell you another part of this story, and I only told this to Glenn last week, that for about six months prior to Glenn's phone call to me, my daughter had been telling, my daughter works in the State Department, and her husband is writing a book on his experience in Nicaragua,
And she kept telling me, I've got to drop my agent.
See, I didn't have an agent when I wrote Doctors, but after Doctors came out, I was sort of hot, so I had my choice of agent.
I picked this big literary agent in New York.
He never really did anything for me.
So my daughter kept saying, you know, I've got this phenomenal agent.
He's young, and he's very aggressive, and you don't want to be...
book writer number 50 on the list of some huge agent, you want to be right at the top of some young, aggressive guy's list.
And she wrote down the name of her husband's agent, and I've stuck it somewhere in our telephone book.
some months after glenn became my agent the thing happened to flutter out of the telephone book and you know what it was that's something i came to him in much the same way uh tom dish recommended he said you've got to get together with glenn hartley yeah because he really cares about uh and he thinks of things and he comes up with ideas and he doesn't drop the book once he gets the contract oh
Let me tell you, I came to him about five years ago, and we've been together this time.
I had this contract for three years with Random House.
Everything was going along swimmingly.
And, you know, he could lose confidence in me.
You know, it would be very easy.
I mean, he hasn't made any money to speak of on me, you know.
And yet they believe in me and they believe in the book.
And boy, what more can you ask for than that?
They'll do it.
You know, they'll do something really good with this book.
You know that big Newsweek article they did about me two weeks ago?
Glenn made that happen.
You're kidding.
Glenn forced that.
You know, Bill Loverd at Knopf was pushing it and pushing it, but it never would have happened if Glenn had not realized.
Number one, Glenn instigated it.
It was his idea.
Number two, he kept pressing them and pressing them and pressing Loverd.
And finally, they did it.
And that has been like a watershed.
Wow.
And I give all the credit to Glenn.
Well, I feel that there are books that are bestsellers.
There are books that really deserve to be bestsellers.
And this is kind of, I think this may even be the lead of my piece.
The response the public is giving to this book, I mean, really, it's really merited here.
It's a marvelous thing.
And I want to let you go because I suspect you've got a full day ahead of you.
It is starting to snow out here.
I don't know if it's hit.
Yeah, I'm going to catch a train.
Actually, I'm on the way to New Haven.
There's a train I'm getting in about 45 minutes.
Well, I better let you run.
Thank you very much.
I'm sure we'll get together again, and I'll send you some things to read, and it's been such a pleasure talking to you.
Oh, for me.
And have a safe trip back.
Thanks again.
Thank you, sir.
Bye-bye.